AI BLOG
By Dylan Miki


This is a short blog following reading the “Assessing Deep Learning: A Work Program for the Humanities in the Age of 
Artificial Intelligence”.There were some points I wanted to express about this article that stood out above the rest.

The first of which I wanted to talk about is AI and human worth. An experiment was performed where AI was tasked with trying
to solve a problem only thought to be solvable by humans. Surprisingly AI swiftly solved this problem leading some baffled
and some feeling distraught at the idea that AI would be able to unfortunately take over society as we know it. With this,
a question is raised. Should we be worried about the potential of AI making human intelligence obsolete? Something the 
article talks about is how is the limits of the DL system and how, even though this AI solved questions only thought to 
able to be solved by humans, it is also emphasized that this AI had weak Common-Sense Reasoning. This AI struggled with 
comprehending basic human emotions such as joy and humor. Emotionally decision-making is based solely on learned patterns
from data. Tasks that require empathy, or ethical consideration are areas where this system fell short. What I believe is
the most profound limitation of the DL system lack of self-awareness. These examples are all to say that we shouldn’t feel
belittled by DL’s AI system. 

The second point I wanted to talk on how DL challenges the capacity of human intelligence. This article seems to imply that
task-specific knowledge will become obsolete with AI because it can be used to quickly solve problems and increase
productivity. The question asked Is will AI forever change the academic standards for what and how we learn? In short, yes.
The reason I feel this question is obviously a yes is because already our academic standards have changed. ChatGPT and OpenAI
are outlined as tools that shouldn’t be used in the classroom setting. But I think it’s very interesting to claim that we
would be learning differently. And after discussing this idea with a fellow classmate and my teacher, I think this is true.
The pros of learning with AI is that you are able to find and work with information at a pace quicker than ever seen before.
But the downside of such is that now, I never need to look deeper into questions and really connect pieces to solve problems.
I feel like AI has started to undermine the fundamentals.

What is also interesting is in previous years, it was extremely useful for humans to think realistically and observe things
objectively by eliminating emotions in business life. However, as AI gets better, it will be better at observing and making
logical decisions than humans. But what it will never do is have moral values and be affected by emotions. In my opinion, this
is one of the most important aspects of humanity, and we should focus more on our emotions and relationships.

We did further research on the topic by asking a few people around us from different fields of study how they can
use AI in everyday life and do they are potentially afraid of the possible outcomes or not. The result is it truly can speed
up the study or workflow in almost any field, however, the human being is still necessary due to the creativity and
morality reasons mentioned in the paragraph before. Most people do not feel fair with this topic due to the fact that
there is no scientific proof that we can truly make a thinking AI model that can overtake humanity. There is no proof for the
opposite, however, we are really far from that and we going to have bigger problems with the environment or wars in the 
near future than a possibly dangerous AI.


Overall, AI is a tool that we should use and act cohesively with, It’s very important that we recognize the potential good and advancements that come with AI being developed. And we remain cognizant of the individuality that we have and the human interactions that
